#### Forewords
Euclid's Elements is imperfect, there exist a variety of issues such as lack of rigor and logical gaps, *1.002.02, Tarski's First order Euclidean Geometry* and *1.002.03 Hilbert's second order Euclidean Geometry* will be there to solve that issue, I won't explicitly critique them in 1.002.01, however I will be rewriting a lot of them, if necessary, in these folders. There isn't a necessity to read this entire file, but I would prefer if you skim through the postulates, notions, and the symbols that I've introduced. 

I highly recommend incorporating the videos i made so its easier to visualize them, 

the words(1.002.0.0000a-1.002.0.0000c) are directly from Heath's 3 volumes of Euclid's Elements, By copyright law it is under public domain. 
### Definitions
#### Book I
1. A Point is that which has no parts.
2. A line is breadthless length.
3. The extremities of a line are points. 
4. A straight line is a line which lies evenly with the points on itself. 
5. A surface is that which has length and breadth only. 
6. The extremities of a surface are lines. 
7. A plane surface is a surface which lies evenly with the straight lines on itself.
8. A plane angle is the inclination to one another of two lines in a plane which meet one another and do not lie in a straight line.
9. And when the lines containing the angle are straight, the angle is called rectilineal.
10. When a straight line set up on a straight line makes the adjacent angle equal to one another, each of the equal angles is right, and the straight line standing on the other is called a perpendicular to that on which it stands. 
11. An obtuse angle is an angle greater than a right angle/
12. An acute angle is an angle less than a right angle. 
13. A boundary is that which is an extremity of anything.
14. A figure is that which is contained by any boundary or boundaries. 
15. A circle is a plane figure contained by one line such that all the straight lines falling upon it from one point among those lying within the figure are equal to one another;
16. And the point is called the centre of the circle. 
17. A diameter of the circle is any straight line drawn through the centre and terminated in both direction by the circumference of the circle, and such a straight line also bisects the circle.
18. A semicircle is the figure contained by the diameter and the circumference cuts off by it. And the centre of the semicircle is the same as that of the circle.
19. Rectilineal figures are those which are contained by straight lines, trilateral figures being those contained by three, quadrilateral those contained by four, and multilateral those contained by more than four straight lines.
20. Of trilateral figures, an equilateral triangle is that which has its three sides equal, an isoceles triangle that which has two of its sides alone equal, and a scalene triangle that which has three sides unequal. 
21. Further, of trilateral figures, a right-angled triangle is that which has a right angle, an obuse-angled triangle that which has an obtuse angle, and an acute angled triangle that which has its three angles acute.
22. Of quadrilateral figures, a square is that which is both equilateral and right-angled; a rhombus that which has its opposite sides and angles equal to one another but is neither equilateral nor right-angled. And let quadrilaterals other than these be called trapezia.
23. Parallel straight lines are straight lines which being in the same plane and being produced indefinitely in both directions, do not meet one another in either direction.
#### Book II.
1. Any rectangular parallelogram is said to be contained by the two straight lines containing the right angle. 
2. And in any parallelogrammic area let any one whatever of the parallelograms about its diameter with the two complements be called a gnomon
#### Book III.
1. Equal circles are those the diameter of which are equal, or the radii of which are equal. 
2. A straight line is said to touch a circle which, meeting the circle and being produced, does not cut the circle.
3. Circles are said to touch one another which,  meeting one another, do not cut one another
4. In a circle straight lines are said to be equally distance from the centre when the perpendiculars drawn to them from the centre are equal. 
5. And that straight lines is said to be at a greater distance on which the greater perpendicular falls. 
6. A segment of a circle is the figure contained by a straight line and a circumference of a circle.
7. An angle of a segment is that contained by a striaght line and a circumference of a circle. 
8. An angle is a segment is the angle which, when a point is taken on the circumference of the segment and straight lines are joined from it to the extremities of the straight line which is the base of the segment, is contained by the straight lines so joined.
9. And, when the straight lines containing the angle cut off a circumference, the angle is said to stand upon that circumference.
10. A sector of a circle is the figure which, when an angle is constructed at the centre of the circle, is contained by the straight lines containing the angle and the circumference cut off by them.
#### Book IV
1. A rectilineal figure is said to be inscribed in a rectilineal figure when the respective angles of the inscribed figure lies on the respective sides of that in which it is inscribed. 
2. Similarly a figure is said to be circumscribed about a figure when the respective sides of the circumscribed figure pass through the respective angles of that about which it is circumscribed. 
3. A rectilineal figure is said to be inscribed in a circle when each angle of the inscribed figure lies on the circumference of the circle.
4. A rectilineal figure is said to be circumscribed about a circle, when each side of the circumscribed figure touches the circumference of the circle.
5. Similarly a circle is said to be inscribed in a figure when the circumference of the circle touches each side of the figure in whcih it is inscribed.
6. A circle is said to be circumscribed about a figure when the circumference of the circle passes through each angle of the figure about which it is circumscribed.
7. A straight line is said to be fitted into a circle when its extremities are on the circumference of the circle.
#### Book V
1. A magnitude is a part of a magnitude, the less of the greater, when it measures the greater. 
2. The greater is a multiple of the less when it is measured by the less. 
3. A ratio is a sort of relation in respect of size between two magnitudes of the same kind. 
4. Magnitude are said to have a ratio to one another which are more capable, when multiplied, of exceeding one another.
5. Magnitudes are said to be in the same ratio, the first to the second and the second to the third to the fourth, when, if any equimultiples whatever be taken of the first and third, and any equimultiples whatever of the second and fourth, like former equimultiples alike exceed, are alike equal to, or alike fall short of, the latter equimultiples respectively taken in corresponding order.
6. Let magnitudes which have the same ratio be called proportional.
7. When, of the equimultiples, the multiples of the first magnitude the multiple of the second, but the multiple of the third does not exceed the multiple of the fourth, then the first is said to have a greater ratio to the second than the third has to the fourth. 
8. A proportion in three terms is the least possible.
9. When three magnitudes are proportional, the first is said to have to the third the duplicate ratio of that which it has to the second. 
10. When four magnitudes are \<continuously\> proportional, the first is said to have the fourth the triplicate ratio of that which it has to the second, and so on continually, whatever be the proportion.
11. The term corresponding magnitudes is used of antecedents in relation to antecedents, and of consequent in relation to consequents. 
12. Alternate ratio means taking the antecedent in relation to the antecedent and the consequent in relation to the consequent.
13. Inverse ratio means taking the consequent as antecedent in relation to the antecedent as consequent
14. Composition of a ratio means taking the antecedent together with the consequent as one in relation to the consequent by itself.
15. Separation of a ratio means taking the excess by which the antecedent exceed the consequent in relation to the consequent by itself.
16. Conversion of a ratio means taking the antecedent in relation to the excess by which the antecedent exceeds the consequent.
17. A ratio ex aequali arises when, there being several magnitudes and another set equal to them in multitude whcih taken two and two are in the same proportions, as the first is to the last among the first magnitudes, so is the first to the last among the second magnitudes; 
	    Or in other words, it means taking the extreme terms by virtue of the removal of the intermediate terms
18. A perturbed proportion arises when, there being three magnitudes and another set equal to them in multitude, as antecedent is to consequent among the first magnitudes, so is antecedent to consequent among the second magnitudes, while, as the consequent is to a third among the first magnitudes, so is a third to the antecedent among the second magnitudes.
#### Book VI.
1. Similar rectilineal are such as have their angles severally equal and the sides about the equal angles proportional
2. Reciprocally related figures; "Two magnitudes are said to be reciprocally proportion to two others when one of the first is to one of the other magnitudes as the remaining one of the last two is to the remaining one of the first"(Simson, in "Thirteen books of Euclid's elements" by heath).
3. A straight line is said to have been cut in extreme and mean ratio when, as the whole line is to the greater segment, so is the greater to the less.
4. The height of any figure is the perpendicular drawn from the vertex to the base.
#### Book VII.
1. A unit is that by virtue of which each of the things that exist is called one. 
2. A number is a multitude composed of units.
3. A number is a part of a number, the less of the greater, when it measures the greater;
4. but parts when it does not measure it. 
5. The greater number is a multiple of the less when it is measured by the less. 
6. An even number is that which is divisible by two equal parts.
7. An odd number is that which is not divisible into two equal parts, or that which differs by an unit from an even number. 
8. An even-times even number is that which is measured by an even number according to an even number. 
9. An even-time odd number is that which is measured by an even number according to an odd number.
10. An odd-times odd number is that which is measured by an odd number according to an odd number.
11. A prime number is that which is measured by an unit alone
12. Number prime to one another are those which are emasured by an unit alone as a common measure.
13. A composite number is that which is measured by some number.
14. Numbers composite to one another are those which are measured by some number as a common measure.
15. A number is said to multiply a number when that which is multiplied is added to itself as many times as there are units in the other, and thus some number is produced.
16. And when two number having multiplied one another make some number, the number so produced is called plane, and its sides are the number which have multiplied one another.
17. And, when three numbers having multiplied one another make some number, the numebr so produced is solid, and its sides are the numbers which have multiplied one another. 
18. A square number is equal multiplied by equal, or a number which is contained by two equal numbers.
19. And a cube is equal multiplied by equal and again by equal, or a number which is contained by three equal numbers.
20. Number are proportional when the first is same multiple, or the same part, or the same parts, of the second that the third is of the fourth.
21. Similar plane and solid umbers are those which have their sides proportional. 
22. A Perfect number is that which is equal to its own parts. 
#### Book X
##### i.
1. Those magnitudes are said to be commensurable which are measured by the same measure, and those incommensurable which cannot have any common measure.
2. Straight lines are commensurable in square when the square on them are measured by the same area, and incommensurable in square when the squares on them cannot possibly have any area as a common measure.
3. With these hypotheses, it is proved that there exist straight lines infinite in multitude which are commensurable and incommensurable respectively, some in length only, and others in square also, with an assigned straight line. Let then the assigned straight line be called rational, and those straight line which are commensurable with it, whether in length or in square or in square only, rational, but those which are incommensurable with it irrational. 
4. And let the square on the assigned striaght line be called rational and those area which are commensurable with it rational, but those which are incommensurable with it irrational, and the straight lines which produce them irrational, that is, in case the areas are squares, the sides themselves, but in case they are any other rectilineal figures, the straight lines on which are described squares equal to them.
 ##### ii.
 5. Given a rationals straight line and a binomial, divided into its terms, such that the square on the greater term is greater than the square on the lesser by the square on a straight line commensurable in length with the greater, then, if the greater term be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, let the whole be called a first binomial straight line;
 6. but if the lesser term be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, let the whole be called a second binomial;
 7. and if neither of the terms be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, let the whole be called a third binomial.
 8. Again, if the square on the greater term be greater than the square on the lesser by the square on a straight line incommensurable in length with the greater, then, if the greater term be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, let the whole be called a fourth binomial. 
 9. if the lesser, a fifth binomial;
 10. and if neither, a sixth binomial;
 ##### iii. 
 11. Given a rational straight line and an apotome, if the square on the whole be greater than the square on the annex by the square on a straight line commensurable in length with the whole, and the whole be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, let the apotome be called a first apotome.
 12. But if the annex be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, and the square on the whole be greater than that on the annex by the square on a straight line commensurable with the whole, let the apotome be called a second apotome,
 13. But if neither be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, and the square on the whole be greater than the square on the annex by the square on a straight loine commensurable with the whole, let the apotome be called a third apotome.
 14. Again, if the square on the whole be greater than the square on the annex by the square on a straight line incommensurable with the whole, then, if the whole be commensurable in length with the rational straight line set out, let the apotome be called a fourth apotome; 
 15. if the annex be so commensurable, a fifth; 
 16. and, if neither, a sixth. 

#### Book XI
1. A solid is that which has length, breadth, and depth. 
2. An extremity of a solid is a surface.
3. A straight line is at right angles to a plane, when it makes right angles with all the straight lines which meet it and are in the plane.
4. A plane is at right angles to a plane when the straight lines drawn, in one of the planes, at right angles to the common section of the planes are at right angles to the remaining plane.
5. The inclination of a straight line to a plane is, assuming a perpendicular drawn from the extremity of the straight line which is elevated above the plane to the plane, and a straight line joined from the point thus arising to the extremity of the straight line which is the plane, the angle contained by the straight line so drawn and the straight line standing up. 
6. The inclination of a plane to a plane is the acute angle contained by the straight lies drawn at right angles to the common section at the same point, one in each of the planes.
7. A plane is said to be similarly inclined to a plane as another is to another when the said angle of the inclinations are equal to one another. 
8. Parallel planes are those which do not meet
9. Similar solid figures are those contained by similar planes equal in multitude.
10. Equal and similar solid figures are those contained by similar equal in multitude and in magnitude. 
11. A solid angle is the inclination constituted by more than two lines which meet one another and are not in the same surface, toward all the lines. 
	    Otherwise: A solid angle is that which is contained by more than two plane angles which are not in the same plane and are constructed to one point.
12.  A pyramid is a solid figure, contained by planes, which is constructed from one plane to one point. 
13. A prism is a solid figure contained by planes two of which, namely those which are opposite, are equal, similar and parallel, while the rest are parallelograms.
14. When, the diameter of a semicircle is the straight line which remains fixed, the semicircle is carried round and restored again to the same position from which it began to be moved, the figure so comprehended is a sphere.
15. The axis of the sphere is the straight line which remains fixed and about which the semicircle is turned.
16. The centre of the sphere is the same as that of the semicircle. 
17. A diameter of the sphere is any straight lines drawn through the center and terminated in both directions by the surface of the sphere.
18. When, one side of those about the right angle in a right-angled triangle remain fixed, the triangle is carried round and restored again to the same position fron which it began to be moved, the figure so comprehended is a cone. And if the straight line whcih remains fixed be equal to the remaining side about the right angle which is carried round, the cone will be right-angled; if less, obtuse-angled; and if greater, acute-angled. 
19. The axis of the cone is the staight line which remains fixed and about which the triangle is turned. 
20. And the base is the circle described by the straight line which is carried round.
21. When one side of those about the right angle in a rectangular parallelogram remaining fixed, the parallelogram is carried round and restored again to the same position from which it began to be moved, the figure so comprehended is a cylinder.
22. The axis of the cylinder is the straight line which remains fixed and about which the parallelogram is turned.
23. And the bases are the circles described by the two sides opposite to one another which are carried round. 
24. Similar cones and cylinders are those in which the axes and the diameter of the bases are proportional. 
25. A cube is a solid figure contained by six equal squares.
26. An octahedron is a solid figure contained by eight equal and equilateral triangles.
27. An icosahedron is a solid figure contained by twenty equal and equilateral triangles.
28. A dodecahedron is a solid figure contained by twelve equal, equilateral, and equiangular pentagons.
note: im probably never gonna open this file again, most of the definitions were in the theorems, writing this entire thing took me 2 hours.