For the sake of Simplicity, I will be integrating symbols into this system. However, it matters more for you to understand that the semantics are more than the syntax in this folder. These are for the sake of your intuition, so its easier understand. Symbols are not a representation of reality, nor will they be more geometry, only a methodology of translation.

I recommend you reviewing [[Logic - Symbols]], because I will be using a few of the symbols for the next, 400-500 nodes.

We use capitalized alphabets to represent points(A, B, C...)
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]], Def. I.1

$\overline{AB}$
(Straight) Line Segment - given two points *A* and *B*, $\overline{AB}$ is a straight line segment formed by the two points
[[1.002.01.0000b Postulates of Euclid's Elements]], Postulate 1
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]], **Def. I.3**

$\overleftrightarrow{AB}$ 
Line - Given the formation of Line Segment $\overline{AB}$, we could form a straight line, which extends infinitely.
[[1.002.01.0000b Postulates of Euclid's Elements]], Postulate 2,
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]], **Def. I.2**


$\text{Circle}(A, D)$, $\text{Circle}(A, \overline{AB})$ 
Circle, with centre being point $A$, Distance D, or represented by a line segment with A and B as endpoints
([[1.002.01.0000b Postulates of Euclid's Elements]], Postulate 3)
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]], **Def. I.15, 16**



$\angle ABC$ - An angle is formed between 3 points ABC
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]],**Def. I.8**
$\angle ABC(R)$ - Angle formed between points ABC is a right angle
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]] **Def. I.10**
$\angle ABC(O)$ - Angle formed between points ABC is an obtuse angle
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]], **Def. I.11**
$\angle ABC(A)$ - Angle formed between points ABC is an acute angle
[[1.002.01.0000a Definitions Euclid's elements]]**Def. I.12**
[^1]

$\overleftrightarrow{AB} \cap \overleftrightarrow{CD}.=X$ - Intersection of line AB and BC is X,
   
$A:B$ 
Ratio - The relation in size between two magnitudes. 

$AB = AB$
Equal - The relations of sameness, with the same value, equivalent.


[^1]: Due to inclusion of numbers it simply loses the essence of Euclid, or thats how I see it, in a sense, you may see me lean more toward the mathematics given by Euclid, converting them into symbols so its easily accessible in modern cases. The decision to use symbols was also a difficult decision, nonetheless. 
